# the-cusp
Author : syed muhammad zain uddin
these are the projects that i restart my software journey with. i did some java and arduino, but i had to put it all on pause due to my mother's medical conditons and acedemic pressure. today is 19/06/2025 and i have some breathing room now and im ready to dive back in.

*********************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************************

1) the first sort of project i made was yesterday, that is the 18/06/2025. a knock off wordle using java in vscode. i already have ideas on where i could improve and optimize the code, but im gonna post it here anyway.i didnt use any help from chatgpt other than getting a list of 100 common 5 letter words. i also didnt watch any youtube tutorials on how to make a worlde clone, i didnt search for how the original wordle was coded. i just dove right in to see if i could figure it out myself.
2) the rock paper scissors with GUI is my first experience with java swing and with GUIs in general. the PNG files for the 'game' , if we could call it that, were downloaded from PNGtree.com and the choices for the computer are made using a random number generator. this was meant for me to be a way to check if i am ready to dive into graphical user interfaces. today is 02/07/2025
3) the smileyEyes program was made by me just to test my understanding of what i had learned. the png of a smiley with blank eyes was generated using ai adn then i added the pupils in each png by hand. i have an s23 ultra it comes with an Spen so it was the easiest way for me to add the eyes. i tried adding an easteregg of sorts, if you leftclick, the eyes of the smiley disappear. today is 07/07/2025
4) the car moves program was made by me again to test my understanding. furthermore it was, to me atleaste, a proof of concept. a very simple car game can be made with relative ease. the png was again from PNGtree.com and i just rotated it in windows and saved as a new file each time to face the four directions. the gimmick here is that the window is totally resizable, just change the values of w and h. today is 08/07/2025
5) the calculatorGUI program was made by me to be able to show something that i made myself and works just as well as any other calculator, minus some added functionality such as parentheses and exponents and trigonomic funtions. though i do plan to add them later on, i have left a button titled "more"  that does nothing currently but will have those functionalities in the future. no gimmicks in this one. today is 12/07/2025
6) the wordleGUI program i made is just a blatant copy of the wordle game on newyork times the website. but the code is all written by me and i didnt use any help from the internet or chatGPT except for it to generate the list of 200+ random commonly used 5-letter words. the list of words is provided as "wordleGUI.txt" .it is the GUI version of my old wordle program but the code is entirely different. the old logic didnt translate well over to this versoin and also i thought i could make it better this time around and i believe i succeeded at that. the gimmick here is the new partially transparent endscreen and that the on screen keyboard and the physical keyboards are both working devices of input. today is 18/07/2025
7) the tic tac toe program is made just to polish what ive learned so far, to get me more confident with this framework. today is 20/07/2025.
